Let's pretend we wanted to track
the mouse position on this div.
Well, that's pretty easy to do.
We basically use a convention of
using camelCase on DOM events, so
on and then the DOM events so
you can do on mouse move for lets see on.
It's funny, we actually support both.
But let's do this one
onMouseMove=handleMouseMove and
handleMousemMove in this case is we're
just sending a signal that updates
some x&y coordinates
that we display in here.
And the one we go in here,
unsurprisingly it works.
So important thing to know
is that our event handlers,
they can be inlined as well.
They pass the dominant event and
then you can read the event and
set the appropriate data.
We support a style tag and
it's a little bit different than you
might have seen in some frameworks.
It does support objects, but we actually
rely on standard, DOM, properties.
And this means that we don't camel case.
And instead, what we ended up
doing is we put let's see.
Got a couple extra brackets somewhere
there we go some fun animation.
We actually use stuff like get
dash case for CSS and this this
might seem like an interesting choice and
it also means pixels and whatnot.
But it gives us a lot of control and
flexibility here because
the compiler will actually
output individual style update
commands for DOM, essentially,
per one of these.
So if, say like, one give them updates,
and then the other ones don't, it'll
actually just update the specific CSS
property independently of the other ones.
And we can also support CSS
variables this way we can add, --,
my variable and it's also lines with
stuff like server side rendering.
It helps us with performance because
again, when you're serializing the stuff
into the DOM, we don't want to do all
these like camel case transformation.
So this is performance optimization.
It gives you more flexibility control and
makes a difference on both the client and
the server.
But yeah in this example we're
literally just using set
interval to blow up some text.
Similarly dealing with classes,
you can just use class in solid,
not class name or anything.
It's, we support standard HTML properties.
But we also have an interesting helper,
which lets us kind of shortcut some
of this stuff to do an object form.
So for example so,
instead of doing this foo selected or
this which is pretty commonplace,
we can go classList which
uses the underlying classList
property on the on the element.
And lets us do something
like selected when
essentially current=foo and again,
this is just convenient when you
want to apply multiple styles.
It's not a huge game changer here.
Sorry, it's an object, but
lets us get around certain
amount of overhead.
One thing that's becoming dreadfully
clear to me is that the playground
is much better than the tutorials
because the tutorials seem to
be having a little bit of an issue here.
Okay, and
let me see here because this is a,
selector thing where you basically using
mutual exclusive selectors in this thing.
And essentially, I'm just going to
pop this down into all of these but yeah,
it's just a convenience
it's not groundbreaking but
it's a cool little feature to have
classList, yes boz and bar yeah.
Baz and bar there we go.
Bar and baz [LAUGH] there we go,
all right still working okay, good.
And one of the cool side effects of
it is that we can also use it for
dynamic expressions there's actually
a little thing here on the side,
but we can also choose what class it is.
We can use object notation for JavaScript
and put a signal maybe in here so
you can actually change what
the keys are dynamically as well.
So it's a nice little tool because you
can kind of combine these objects and
kind of describe more
complicated logic with it.
Let's continue refs since
all come in two forms,
and this is how you get
access to a DOM element,
you can obviously just go div=div, right?
But sometimes it's nicer to actually write
your code in like full GSX templates and
not like break everything
out element by element.
So the most common way we
make a ref in solid is
by making a variable like let canvas.
And then we're doing a bunch of
canvas work here in this mount call.
So we're requesting animation frames and
doing a bunch of fun stuff.
But to enable this behavior,
all we have to do is ref=canvas.
And, Did I call it right?
Yeah, let canvas.
Then essentially all
that should happen is.
The variable just gets directly
assigned immediately to here.
To make sure I'm not insane.
This example is actually broken, okay?
For reals, that's not fun.
Looking at the solve one's actually broken
doesn't actually help us here, okay.
I should report this later
we're gonna cut I guess,
don't let's think of a better rough
example really quick so give me a moment.
See if the browser gives me any into
what's going on in here no this
is just the playground
being weird awesome.
Okay, so then we yeah.
I could try and
recreate this like really quickly.
>> Yeah, and this you can just
have the browser the normal.
>> Yeah, it's just gonna see if I can
figure out why this is being weird.
What was it called?
Style.
I wonder if they, okay,
share link refresh.
Interesting.
Okay, there's something wrong with
this example which is interesting.
I don't think it's probably with
debugging it at this moment I mean we
can sanity check that canvas
actually exists at this point.
But yeah, that's a canvas element.
I wonder if this is one of those things
where you're, I'm streaming or something,
and then it's like I'm accessing the 3D
card and it's messing with it or
something.
Because the element is here it is
literally running this routine.
And it's examples not working
which is weird, distort cleanup.
It's yeah, okay, I've got nothing for
this example, unfortunately,
because it just doesn't seem to.
But it's like the vanilla JavaScript
is not working, not the framework.
We actually literally get in here.
Okay, that's unfortunate.
Trying to think of what
I can do here instead,
because this example is just broken.
>> Is the image coming in from that URL?
Can you?
>> That's.
>> That URL.
>> Is that the problem here?
Yeah.
>> I probably.
>> Yeah.
>> Well but just visit the image and
see if it's there.
>> It is there, interesting.
That's so weird, let's see what we
got here because we get the canvas.
We get the reference,
definitely the reference to the canvas.
We get the image data.
I'm supposed to mess with the colors,
that's very disappointing.
This demo is working at one point.
The funny thing is I can teach refs so
that actually,
doing this it just I'm gonna
have to go slightly off script
which is probably fine at this point
still like a very simple example.
>> I got canvas undefined in the on
mount from the fresh refreshing.
>> Okay, let's try that.
Yeah.
>> Person on chat is saying there's
a canvas variable on canvas
API naming online 7 and 9.
I don't know.
>> I think this is fine, yeah and.
>> Yeah, it seems fine.
>> And I'm getting the canvas when I
refresh and this is just a light variable,
so, I don't think Google's catching up.
I mean can we JSON.string.
>> Is it getting the CSS?
>> Yeah,
this is most likely a problem with
the playground processing the CSS
more likely than anything.
Yeah, the canvas is definitely there.
So, yeah, this is yeah,
>> I'm not unsolved,
I see your query params.
>> Yeah, what I'm gonna do I'm
just gonna make this a really
uninteresting example and
just show that we get the canvas [LAUGH].
And leave it at that would
have been cooler with a cool
animation but
I'm just going to just, yeah.
We're just gonna do that.
>> We could take a couple
minute tech break so
you could set up a different example.
>> Yeah, let me.
>> If you feel like.
>> I'm trying to think of something
else because the CSS is gonna be fine,
then it's gonna make that.
>> Well let's, let's take five
>> Breaths, give you a reference
to a native element and
in solid you can do this in two ways.
The easiest way and more straightforward
way is to just create a variable and
this is a normal variable this let canvas
and then all we do is on our element.
We go ref canvas here and
now you will see our nice effects because
we have reference to our canvas and
now one of the sold logos here
is getting animated with color.
But we also have a different
way of using rafts, right?
This works really well when you
want to wait and use it in a mount.
So once it's been connected to the DOM,
see we're using our canvas directly here.
We can also just create
a signal which also works
quite well because sometimes you wanna or
really any function for that matter.
We can use callback refs and this gives
us a little bit more control about how we
assign the ref, which can be useful.
So in this case I'm gonna
change this canvas to,
now it's gonna be a function and
then down here we can go set canvas.
For an example like this,
it's effectively the same thing.
Ref setCanvas and
probably referencing canvas is
a function in multiple places, here, I am
Let's just update them all.
One more,
Important createSignal and
we have the same effect again.
So you have a couple choices here, right?
You can always assign it
directly to the element.
But if you want to keep your JSX together,
you can just assign to a variable or
use a signal if you want to do some
more dynamic stuff with it, right.
And similarly we can actually forward
our refs through components and
we don't actually need much of
a special syntax for that, right?
Now, similar example where we
have all this logic and for
some reason I've broken the canvas
out into a different component.
Okay, in here we have our canvas element.
All we need to do is.
Go ref, props.ref, and it's basically
a special property we know with props.ref.
We can basically if the ref is provided
by the parent like it is here,
which is just this canvas variable
again we can forward it through.
And let's update this URL,
looks this site is down and there we go.
We see our same canvas effect.
So even through components,
we can forward refs simply by
using the props.ref property.